Okay, let's talk about key really quick.
Key is here.
It seems kind of strange.
Let's just delete it here for a second.
Is this actually, oh yeah.
Good for you, React, for remembering to tell me that.
But it's gonna yell at you here in the console as well.
It says that each thing should have a unique key.
Probably seen that several times throughout the course here.
What is this all about?
All right, imagine you have
extremely complicated components, right?
And they render a bunch of images
and text and stuff like that.
And then the user refilters,
and it just swaps like two components.
Like what was here is now down here,
and what is here is now up here.
React doesn't have a concept of like
what was here and what was where.
And so what it's gonna do is it's going to tear down
everything and rebuild everything from the ground up again.
Sometimes that's okay.
Sometimes it's not okay.
What key does when you're doing like these kind of like
map sort of things like we're doing here,
and there's a lot of peer components next to each other,
that could be rearranged.
We don't rearrange these, but in theory we could.
What key does is saying like here is a unique thing
that's tied to this object.
So like what's unique to a pizza, it's ID, right?
And so that way if we swap two things, it's like,
oh, you had this here and now you have it here
because I have this like identifier that I can look at
to see like this move from here to here.
I'm just gonna swap the components
as opposed to tearing everything down and rebuilding it.
Right, does that make sense?
So that's why it just yells at you constantly
like please put a key on here.
It's just a habit you wanna get into.
I will say here is a very common misstep here.
What happens if I grab the index?
Why is this not okay?
It's not stable.
It's not tied to the object,
which I think is what you're getting at, right?
So if I move pepperoni from index zero to index five,
pepperoni and zero weren't associated,
so it's gonna think that as like, oh, okay,
pepperoni or five stayed in the same place,
so I'm not gonna change anything.
And it actually did change, right?
So that's why you can't do it that way
because the index and the object are not tied to each other.
There's no relation between those two things.
That being said, there's sometimes,
there's just not a key to associate with something.
Sometimes it just doesn't matter if it gets reorganized.
So you'll find me doing this sometimes
where I just want the linter to shut up
and get out of my way, right?
You can do this this way and put the index there.
So I'm gonna do this this way and put the index there.